[Maddie] Previously on Siren.
My dad talked
to the ME. about Decker.
She said there was something
going on in his brain.
Will you sing to me?
[singing Siren song]
Do you know what it means?
Great love to some.
For others, a euphemism
for obsession.
Did I hear your friend
say you have a boat?
It's just
a old fishing tub.
Never been on a fishing boat.
Lieutenant _lVlartinez
reporting.
I've followed the trail,
gained access,
secured the location.
I'll be in touch.
[Maddie]
My mom's back.
-You think she's clean?
-No Idea.
I'm sorry it had
to go this way, okay?
I tried to intervene.
Marissa will step in
while we figure out
next steps.
[Dale] You mean while you
find my replacement? Thanks.
There's some kind
of disturbance.
Sound waves.
Aah!
[Helen]
What are they doing back?
[Maddie]
They were forced out.
Oh, my God!
[sniffs]
[hisses]
[geese calling]
You like it.
It is good for us here.
Family.
Yes.
Okay.
We go back.
Your mother.
My sister.
Gone.
[woman singing somber song]
[distressed breathing]
We shall follow
I help you now.
You are strong.
Like mother.
[soft hiss]
Humans bring food.
Humans. [hisses]
We go back.
Now.
Unh!
[placid high-pitched call]
[Kelli]
My son came into my room.
I was in bad shape.
And he looked at me
and he said,
"Mommy, I love you,
and I'm scared
you're gonna die."
That was it.
Finally had to choose
between the drugs and my kid.
Your love for your son
is inspiring.
And that love
is gonna help you.
For all of us, the way
out of our addiction
is through relationships.
You can't do it alone.
[door slams]
[facilitator] Looks like
we got a few newcomers
with us today.
If anyone else
would like to share.
All right.
[clears throat]
Uh, I'm-- I'm Ben.
-Hey, Ben.
-[others] Hi, Ben.
[facilitator]
What brings you here today?
Uh, it's... It's kind
of hard to explain.
Um...
Iwas in a...
a complicated relationship,
got obsessive,
I guess.
Started feeling unhealthy,
so, uh, I'm--
I'm not sure what to do when
a relationship
is the addiction.
-Thanks, Ben.
-Thank you, Ben.
[dog barking]
[door closes]
I, uh... I got you
a matcha latte
from Lilly's.
Oh. Thank you.
How's the, uh--
How's the family reunion?
My dad seems happy, so...
So that oil company,
they're mapping
a thousand square miles
of ocean.
That's gonna take months.
-Eight.
-Eight months?
How are we gonna manage them
for eight months?
Uh... carefully?
-Good morning.
-Hey.
I was gonna
make breakfast, but
all you had was
this shitty coffee
and stale bread.
Yeah, well, you should see
the other boats on this clock.
This is...
This is luxury.
Mm.
Can I ask you something?
Yeah, sure.
You said your dad died
not too long ago.
Did it happen here?
On this boat?
So this is a sex first,
ask questions later
kind of relationship, huh?
You got a problem with that?
Not really. [laughs]
But, uh...
Yeah, it happened here.
We were, um, out on a run.
This big storm.
Main net got caught
on its spindle.
My dad went to clear it.
Something happened.
Pulled him overboard.
Was just gone.
-Damn.
-Yeah.
I'm sorry.
Now I gotta get
this boat back together.
My dad left
a big ol' pile of debt, so...
That's a lot to deal with.
All I ever saw
was how strong her was.
Fishing boat captain.
Major tough ass.
But he was just a guy,
you know,
just trying to get by.
That's kinda the thing
about life.
I mean, you could
wake up one morning
and make a choice,
change everything
about yourself.
-Hi.
-Hey.
Pajamas
and slippers day, huh?
Well, I figured I'd watch
a couple of game shows
and catch up
on my soap operas.
[Susan]
You know what I think?
You are the best thing
that happened to this town,
and the council better
come to Its senses
and give you your job back.
Well, whatever's
meant to be will be.
Haida-Zen, yadda-yadda.
You gotta fight back.
I don't even understand
why they fired you
in the first place.
How was the meeting
this morning?
I saw Ben Pownall.
Really?
And I'm assuming that
Maddie knows about this.
Actually, I'm not sure.
Well, either way,
it's not good for her.
Growing up with an addict,
and now dating one?
It's my fault.
I'm gonna have to help her
get away from him.
Uh, I'd think about that
before giving her dating advice.
Yeah. You're probably right.
One step at a time.
-[Maddie] Got it?
-[Ben] Yeah.
Could be ugly in here.
Ben!
[hisses]
[Helen] I couldn't
sleep last night.
I finally conked out
around 3:00 AM.
They must
have slipped out early.
You were supposed
to be watching them.
You're the den mother.
Yeah, well, den mother's
got a lousy back.
-[hisses]
-[Helen] Hey!
No need to push.
Have you been watching
Ryn with them?
Yeah.
Hello.
Sister's daughter.
Really?
Oh.
Thank you.
[hisses]
[Ben]
Hey,no,no,no,no,no.
That's food. We eat that.
Ta-da.
[soft hiss]
You want to try?
-Yeah.
-[Maddie chuckles]
Good.
Hey, hey, hey.
Ryn?
Her skin.
It's already getting bad.
They need to go back.
How?
Those sonic waves
almost killed you out there.
They can't go back
in the water.
[rock music playing,
indistinct conversations]
Calvin?
That's me.
Ian Sutton, KFGT News?
I texted you this morning.
Oh, hey. Hey.
Thanks for coming
all the way from Seattle
to talk to me.
[laughs]
I-- I didn't.
I came up here to report
on those beached whales.
I figured while I was up here,
I'd follow up on your call.
Bristol Cove isn't
exactly our regular beat.
Okay, cool.
So what'd you want
to talk to me about?
You know
how Bristol Cove is big
into the whole mermaid thing?
Yep, I'm gettin' that.
Well, check this out.
What, a sea lion?
That's no sea lion.
Then what is it?
It's a mermaid.
A real one.
No kidding?
Hey, what does a story
like that usually pay?
Calvin, we're
a news organization.
We don't pay for our stories.
Look, you want
to sell a story
about a real-life mermaid?
Call the Enquirer.
Okay, the exploration
starts here
and moves south.
And the sonic waves
amplify as they move out
at least 500 miles.
[Maddie] Maybe we could
take them out past that.
Could you go
far out into the ocean
where the sound is okay?
No. There are others.
Strong ones.
They will fight us.
Other colonies?
They protect their water.
They're territorial.
[Helen] They can't last
much longer here.
They need to go back tonight.
I got some ideas.
Now, there are some places,
given the topography,
that the _sound in the water
mIght be less.
I can show them to you.
Okay, yes.
When will the oil project
be finished?
Eight months.
[Helen]
Eight months?
We need to feed them,
clothe them,
maybe find them
somewhere new to stay.
We're gonna need money.
Yes, money.
[Helen]
You won't ask your father
for anything, I know,
but I can.
_ And he
Will give It to me.
You show me the water.
Wait, Ryn,
no, we can't leave them here.
I tell them to stay.
They listen to me.
I'll watch them.
Maddie, I don't feel
good about this.
It's okay.
They're degrading.
They're weaker.
I can handle it.
Just in case.
Hello, Berta.
I'm here to see boss.
_ Mr. Pownall is
In a meetIng rIght now.
Ch. I'll wait.
Helen!
Don't mind!
Ah, luck.
Perfect timing.
Meg, Jack,
thanks for coming.
Helen?
Ted.
To what do I owe
the pleasure?
[Ben] All the other coves
around here are deep water,
so the sound
will be very bad.
Now, this one is shallow.
If they stay
close to the shore,
the sonic effect
will be less.
I think this is
our best choice.
The people are here.
Yeah. We'll do it at night.
There won't be
anyone here.
[startled]
It's fire.
We use it to cook our food.
[gaSPSI
Careful. It's hot.
Fire can be dangerous.
[hisses]
[soft hiss]
[grunting hisses]
Great.
I'll have these filed,
and it should take
one or two busmess days
to release the funds.
Thank you.
I was always told
that this money
was to keep your side
of the family quiet.
We have always lived up
to our side of the bargain.
Your mother
and your grandmother
knew to keep
the fund intact.
I'm the end
of the line, Ted.
There's nowhere else
for It to go.
[Ted]
Why all of a sudden? Huh?
What's it for?
It's none of your business.
Maybe I'll buy
a Maserati.
[Ted] Xander?
Oh, uh, hey.
Hey, Mr. Pownall.
You okay?
Yeah. I'm just, um,
you know, making a deposit.
You always put on
a shirt and tie
to make a deposit?
Um, it's the North Star,
she needs fixing.
Figured on a loan, huh?
That's good.
Your dad, he made
a lot of sacrifices
to keep his company going.
He'd be proud you're
doing the same thing.
Okay.
[Ryn]
Where do we go?
We're gonna
get you something
that's gonna help you
get by here on land.
[camera clicking]
Uh, okay,
let's try that again,
but this time,
eyes open.
Yeah, yeah, we're good.
Okay, we'll use that one.
Okay.
[Ben] Are you sure
this is gonna work?
Dude, this like
the Mona Lisa of fake I.D.s
You don't have to worry
about getting carded, ever.
Okay, Ryn, R-Y-N.
Last name?
Fisher.
Ryn Fisher.
Okay, I'm gonna put
your age at 22.
Learn this date.
Know your sign.
Sign.
Uh, yeah, you're a Pisces.
Okay.
And...
And voil.
Your new driver's license.
May it bring you many years
of happy drinking.
[wheezing]
[hisses, sniffs]
[labored breathing]
[panï¬ng]
[growling]
[wolf growling]
[hissing]
[barking and growling]
[Cami screams]
[wolf yelps]
I am Pisces, 22.
Uh, yes,
that is how old you are.
How long you've been alive.
22 years.
Years.
Uh, it's...
It's one of the ways
we tell time.
How do you measure time
in the ocean?
Um, maybe by the tides?
The whales.
When they go, come back.
Yeah, annual migration.
Okay, so how many times
have the whales
gone and come back
since you were born?
Many times.
Like, 50?
What, a hundred?
Stop.
-What?
-Stop the car.
What? What? Okay. Okay.
I will drive.
No. Just 'cause
you have a lIcense,
-it doesn't mean--
-I want to learn.
We gotta get back
to the cabin.
There is time.
They go at night.
All right.
Okay. [clears throat]
A driving lesson
with a mermaid.
That is the brake.
Good.
That makes you stop.
And this is the gas.
[engine revs]
Very gentle.
This is the steering wheel.
You move it this way
to go that way.
This way, you go there.
You understand?
I do.
I watch you drive.
Okay.
You ready?
Ready.
[AJR]
Way up, way up, we go
[Ben] Brakes! Brakes!
Been up and down that road
- Way up, way up, oh no
-Easy, okay?
- We gon' burn
the whole house down
-Easy.
Watch me stand in the line
Yeah. Straighten up.
- You're only servin' lies
-Good, good.
You got somethin' to hide
We gon' burn
the whole house down
[chuckles]
-I'm a good driver.
-Yeah.
We gon' burn
the whole house down
-I'm a good driver.
-Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Look, look.
Hey. Hey, Mr. McClure.
Uh, Xander.
So I talked with my manager.
Yeah?
I really pushed
for you on this one,
but we ran the numbers,
and, unfortunately, it's saying
that we can't approve this loan.
It would be too high a risk.
So I'm too high of a risk?
Just according to the numbers.
[sighs]
You went to Bristol, right?
Well, yeah.
I was a class behind you.
I was on cheer squad
when you played football.
Go Whalers!
Yeah. Yeah, you were
kind of a dick back then, too.
["Burn Down The House"
by AJR playing on radio]
Should I keep it light?
[laughing] Whoa!
Okay, okay, okay.
[laughing]
If I write a song
Preachin' what is wrong
You are okay?
Uh, yeah. Yeah, I'm fine.
I'm-- I'm-- I'm laughing.
It's funny.
Funny.
It's like, uh,
when you feel good
and you're happy.
I don't know. I don't
know how to explain it.
Way up, way up, oh no
[forced laughter]
No, no, no, no, no.
You can't force it.
It just has to happen.
I would like to laugh someday.
Yeah, I'm sure you will.
What if the way
I feel about you
has nothing to do
with the song?
Yes, Ben.
Maybe.
[Maddie]
Hurry! We're almost there!
Come on!
[hisses]
Wolves don't
usually attack people.
Maybe it sensed
that they were predators,
even though they're weakened.
[Maddie] Ryn?
I'm sorry.
They just snuck out.
I should have been
more careful.
No.
They.
-[hiss]
I say stay.
-You stay.
-[hisses]
You do what I say.
[hisses]
[growling]
You listen.
[labored breathing]
Water is bad,
but you must go in.
Strong like mother.
[wheezing]
[female singer]
I'm comin' out to play
O! 0!
I'm lightin' up the place
I'm changin' everything
I'm about to drop it out
Just wait and see
Ain't no way
to make it stop
All eyes on me
-[wolf whistle]
- I see you lookin'
Lookin' at me
-Hey, sailor.
You look amazing.
[laughs]
Can I get a lift?
- And you like it, like it
-Uh-huh.
Like what you see
-Oh, watch the clams!
-Yep, all right.
Whoo!
Comin' through.
Prelim!
Hey!
Whoo. [laughing]
Whaddup, fishes!
I forgot how fun
this town can be.
Yeah.
Except I feel like people
are totally looking at me.
[Dale]
Oh, don't be silly.
It's true, Dale.
How do you not see it?
Listen, of all the nights,
this is not the one
where people are lookIng at you.
I see you lookin', lookin'
Lookin' at me
They're in.
And they know to come
straight back out?
Yes. I tell them.
[male singer]
Oh, girl, I like it
Anytime, anyplace, aanhere
Just a few hours
-Here you go.
-[man] Thank you.
Honey, I'm melting
You're working here
now, huh?
Janine hooked me up,
few days a week.
So that means you're
staying in town then.
Huh. This town's really got
mermaids on the brain.
What's up with that?
Yeah. You don't know
the half of it.
-Yea h?
-Yeah.
[man] Let's roll!
Everybody down to the beach!
[bar patrons shouting]
[man] Come on!
Get in the water!
Oh, my God, you've
gotta be kidding me!
No, no, no, no!
You can't go in!
-It's not safe!
-Stop!
Wait! No, wait!
[Ben] Hey, no, no!
You can't go in there!
-Stop!
-[Maddie] Get out!
It's not safe!
You have to get out!
-[Helen] Stop!
-[Ben] No, you can't go in here!
-Wait!
-Stop!
-No, you can't.
-[hisses]
[Maddie] Come on,
get out of the water!
We should go for a dip.
You're crazy.
Dad! Dad!
Hi, sweetie.
I need to talk
to you, alone.
[crowd shouting]
[man] Guess who's
goin' in there!
[Helen] Get out!
[music playing]
Get out of the water!
[laughing]
[muffled music]
Everybody, out of the water!
Now!
[Ben]
You have to get out!
Aah!
Everybody, out of the water!
Out of the water now!
Ryn, no!
[screaming]
Get out! Come on!
Dale, what is going on?!
Maddie, can you take
your mother home?
Sure. Come on.
Get out!
[panicked screams]
[panting hisses]
We're locking it down.
Any idea
what happened out there?
Yeah, I talked
to Ben about it.
He said it's
probably a sea lion.
Shouldn't have been
in the water.
You know
what happened tonight?
It's them.
How many?
A small group, six.
[scoffs, laughs]
Xander, they're
gonna be back on land
a little longer.
An oil company is doing
some exploration work.
The sound pollution,
they can't take it.
Xan,
he's with them.
The one who killed my dad?
Yeah.
Look, I just...
I need to know
that you're gonna
be okay with it.
[laughs]
Have you--
Have you lost your mind?!
Look, get out of my way!
Come here,
you son of a bitch!
Come here!
-Come here!
-No! No, Xander! No!
-Get off of me!
-Xan!
[Helen] Dale!
Come here!
You want them here, huh?!
In our town?!
Really, Ben?!
[grunting]
Oh! [groans]
Stop! Xan, stop!
Knock it off, both of you!
Xander, stop it!
Stop it!
[Xander grunts]
I'm not the risk!
Okay? They're the risk!
He's gonna be a problem.
Humans stay angry.
[Susan]
What the hell?
Do you think I'm gonna
make it through like this?
What?!
You ignore me!
People in town are
whispering behind my back!
Your father sends me home
as if I couldn't
possibly understand
what's going on!
You know how much
work I have done
to come back here?
Okay, Mom. Sorry it doesn't
look how you want it to.
Guess it's gonna take time.
[Susan] Why?
[sniffles, sighs]
Why?
Maybe because
of all the days
teachers had to walk
me home from school
'cause you were too wasted
to come get me.
Or how I never had
friends over
so they wouldn't see my mom
strung out, watching TV
in the middle of the day!
And then you just disappear,
a day, two days.
This time, new record,
almost a year.
You don't get to erase
all that by showing up
for a week.
So you've got patience
for Ben, but not for me, huh?
I know
about your boyfriend.
That he's an addict.
What are you talking about?
I saw Ben _
at a recovery meetIng.
Really wanted help
with the unhealthy
relationship that he was in.
Mom, there are things
you don't know
about my life right now,
and I'm willing
to share them someday,
but you need to earn that.
Come,
get a good night sleep.
I need to get back, okay?
I'm gonna stick
around this time.
I promise I'm gonna stay.
Okay.
Okay, Mom.
The water.
[winces]
Pain!
Yes, I know.
[engine stops]
Ben teach me to drive.
Seriously?
I am a good driver.
[laughing] Okay.
Oh, Ryn.
[laughing]
-[chuckling]
-[fox crying]
[bell jingles]
[cartoon playing]
Hello.
Uh... hey?
[bag crinkling]
-Hey, come on!
-Ech!
Hey! Hey, you can't do that!
You gotta buy it first!
Hey, damn it,
I said leave it be!
[hisses]
Hey! Stop that!
Stop it!
Put it back!
[grunting]
Hey!
Out! Now!
We are stronger
than them.
I am stronger than you.
-[hiss]
[hisses]
[bell jingles]
[groaning]
Look, they just--
They had--
They had
too much to drink.
Sorry, man.
This should cover it, right?
No. No, Ryn, she can't go.
That's not safe.
She'll be okay.
It's not her
I'm worried about.
[rock music playing]
It could get ugly, man.
We're not done
with those things.
What?!
That was them?
Out there in the water?
Everything good?
What happened
out there tonight?
Um, it's nothing.
Just another round?
-[wolf howling]
-[gasp51
[howling]
[bell jingles]
Hello, Helen.
[sighs]
I know why you're here.
It's a lot of money.
What are you planning
on doing with it?
Renovating your shop?
I'll tell you the same thing
I told your husband.
It's none of your business.
Actually, it is.
If you really think
about it,
it's pretty unlikely that you
are related to the Pownalls.
My family has been in this town
a lot longer than you have,
so you're not really qualified
to make such a claim.
The account is mine.
You have no recourse.
I'm quite busy.
Shall I get Scott,
or will you be
exiting on your own?
If you don't mind.
[door opens, bell jingles]
[door closes]
[door opens]
I think they were all drunk.
I don't know,
they were barefoot,
acting all weird,
seemed like foreigners.
How many?
I don't know,
six, seven.
And it was one
of the women
that pushed you
to the ground?
Yep.
Anything else you can think of?
Vehicles?
Yeah, they got in a van.
Uh, Pownall Seafood.
[Marissa] Pownall?
Ted Pownall's
got some property
not too far from here.
All right.
[Eliza, practicing]
Hello.
[Levi] Hello.
What?
That look.
[Levi] Hello.
I just wanted
to say, um...
[Levi] Hello.
I know how hard
it's been for you.
Dealing with Ryn
and the song.
[hisses]
I also know you're
trying to get better.
My mom told me about
the support group meeting.
She was there?
Were you there
because of Ryn?
Yeah.
I think it's great
you're working on it.
Means a lot.
[footsteps]
Still hungry.
Never stop eating.
When are you gonna tell her
about what happened
to her mother?
She cannot know this now.
That humans did this.
Or she will not stay on land.
[sighs]
It is a good day.
[hissing breaths]
[hisses]
[grunting]
[hissing]
[placid high-pitched call]
[music playing]